Feature selection●Feature selection is the process of including the significant features in the model●This can be achieved by:○Forward selection method○Backward elimination method○Stepwise method●To understand the above methods let X1, X2, ... , Xkbe k predictor variables and Y be the response variable

Forward selection methodProcedure1.Start with a null model (with no predictors)2.Obtain the correlation between Y and each variable. The variable with highest correlation gets added to the model (say Xm). Build a model Y ~ Xm3.Obtain the correlation between Y and remaining (k-1) variables. The next variable (say Xp) is included, which has the highest correlation with Y after removing Xm 4.Build a model Y ~ Xm+ Xp. If Xpis significant include it in the model else discard5.Repeat steps (3) and (4) until reaching the stopping rule or running out of variables
Proprietary content. © Great Learning. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use or distribution prohibited.Backward elimination methodProcedure1.Start with a full model (model with all k predictors)2.Remove the variable which is least significant (variable with largest p-value)3.Fit a new model with remaining (k-1) regressors4.The next variable (say Xp) is removed if it is least significant 5.Repeat steps (3) and (4) until reaching the stopping rule or all variables are significant
Proprietary content. © Great Learning. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use or distribution prohibited.Stepwise regression●It is a combination of forward selection and backward elimination method ●Procedure:○Start with a null model (with no predictors)○At each step add or remove variable based on its corresponding p-value○Stop when no variable can be added or removed justifiably
Proprietary content. © Great Learning. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use or distribution prohibited.Recursive feature elimination (RFE)●It is an instance of backward feature elimination●Procedure:○Train a full model○Create subsets for features○Set the subset size○Compute the ranking criteria for each feature subset○Remove the feature subset that has the least ranking
